Testing Instructions for Arduino 101 Powered Rover


Continuous Collision Avoidance Mode:
1. Place the rover in a fairly open area (such as a playground, backyard, gymnasium, etc), with at least 2 meters of space in between the front of the vehicle and the nearest obstacle
2. Supply power to the Arduino by plugging in the cable attached to the power supply, and turn on the Electronic Speed Control
3. Wait 5-15 seconds
4. Open iPad Rover Controller Application
5. Wait for on/off switch to appear in center of iPad screen
6. Turn switch on to start the back motor of the rover and enable collision avoidance


Vehicle to Vehicle Communication Intersection Demonstration:
1. Place the driverless arduino rover and the RC raspberry pi rover about 9 meters apart (try closer if the vehicles are failing to connect, the raspberry pi 3 has a relatively small bluetooth range)
2. Orient the two vehicles such that they are pointing towards a common point, from directions around 90 degrees relative to each other
3. Plug the raspberry pi and the arduino, turning the two devices on, and turn on the Electronic Speed Control on the arduino rover
4. Wait until both GPSs indicate a fix (when the blinking red light on the GPS starts blinking much less frequently)
5. SSH into the raspberry pi and start the intersection demo python program
6. Once the arduino rover starts moving, using the Remote Control, drive the raspberry pi rover into the path of the arduino rover, so that they are on a collision path and moving in directions around 90 degrees relative to each other
7. Do not stop raspberry pi rover; drive it straight through the intersection
8. The arduino rover should now stop and let the raspberry pi rover pass


**Note: for both the sketches, the pulse length that determines the speed of the arduino rover is defined by a C++ macro. The rover must be set at a lower pulse width to be able to move through the grass, but must be set to higher pulse width in order to achieve the same velocity on pavement. A pulse width of between 1050 and 1080 work well in the grass, and 1120 works well on level pavement. Pulse widths in between will achieve different speeds as well. A pulse width of 1140 will stop the rover completely.